Well welcome to this month's Ask Your Rev Doctor. My name is Andrew Murray.
Well it's 2020 folks. It's going to be a fantastic decade. I don't know about you but I'm looking
forward to 2020. It's going to be a good year. Okay so you're listening to Ask Your Rev Doctor
KMU DeGalbraithville 91.1 FM. From 7 30 until the end of the show at 8 o'clock you're invited
to call in with any questions related to this month's subject of vibrations, frequencies, and
cell repair and regeneration through sound and vibration. The program is a live program. Like I
said from 7 30 to the end of the show at 8 o'clock we'll open up the phone lines for people to call
in. Dr. Raymond Peat, PhD is joining us again and as he has done for the last 10 years I think now
is a wealth of knowledge and whilst I know he doesn't express himself as a
what would you call it an expert on sound he knows enough about a lot of different things that I know
he can weigh in on the subject of some of the most interesting and recent 2019 and 2020 publications
based on research that is accessible through the PubMed website being done in a very interesting
field of medicine and some of the uses for excuse me for sound and electrofrequency magnetic
spectrum type vibration is used in the treatment of cancer so we've got an interesting article to
open up a little bit later on. So just by way of introducing the show my name is Andrew Murray.
I run a business called Western Botanical Medicine. I've been a naturopathic doctor here for 23 years.
We manufacture our own range of medicinal herb extracts and deal with a lot of people all over
the nation consulting about a wide range of health conditions and has for the last 10 or just over
years been very much working with Dr. Peat to get his insight onto what I thought was the way things
were when I graduated in 1999. I did a four-year degree in herbal medicine in England after a
three-year degree in botany and was taught by medical doctors and physiologists and endocrinologists
and pathologists and they all came from City Hospital in London and various other medical
institutions and were basically teaching the same kind of dogma if you like and I know Dr. Peat and
I have opened up quite a few discussions based around the errant recapitulation of supposed facts
of which Dr. Peat is very able to expand and show the defects in the understanding and the dogma
which has unfortunately guided medical decision medical technology. But anyway without further
ado let's just see if Dr. Peat's with us. Dr. Peat you on? Yeah. Great well thanks so much for joining
us in this next decade. I want to put the question to you. I hope you'll be around for another decade.
Yeah good good. Okay so for those of you perhaps have never listened to the show before you've not
heard Dr. Peat. Dr. Peat would you just outline your professional and academic background for
people to understand where you're coming from? I had a master's degree in humanities and after
about 10 years went back for a PhD in biology University of Oregon 1972
on reproductive aging was my dissertation topic. Okay so reproductive aging so you've been pretty
intimately associated with all of the factors around reproduction and organized cell growth
to maximize the organism's potential. I know having worked with you especially surrounding
things like you know neonatal health, children's health and the kind of foods. You're very much a
food-based scientist in terms of not buying into the fads of all the things that are thrown at us
through supplements but you're very much a kind of a very natural kind of approach to
treating disease and I know you don't really generally advocate a lot of supplements but I
know that progesterone is one of your pets if you like having you probably studied that a lot
during your PhD in terms of its use as a factor in organized cell growth and
anti-inflammatory processes. Incidentally some of my experiments had to do with the
electrical behavior of tissue under the influence of progesterone, estrogen, prostaglandins and so
on. Interesting okay so we're going to get into that so I don't know let's just hold that thought
for a second so I think I'm hopefully going to be able to prime you to bring that back up again but
you've always mentioned and this is kind of a little bit off the side of the topic thrust as
it were but you've always mentioned estrogen as being an excitotoxic molecule and unfortunately
most women who are listening or perhaps maybe the more educated ones that understand a little bit
more about what you've taught over the last 30 or 40 years probably understand estrogen as being a
female hormone and you know the whole hormone replacement therapy thing really pushed it as a
pro-life hormone you know they want to say that'll help your bone thinning stabilize it's good for
osteoporosis as it were and it's good for degenerative conditions when actually it's a
very hormone that is based and implicated in inflammation and excitotoxicity. So I was very
excited to see the articles when I was looking for the material for today or to this evening's talk
basing it on sound vibration cell signaling I was going to get I'm going to get into a little bit
later on to get into the kind of tuning forks resonant frequencies a little bit about Rife
although I know you've already said that you you know you found it interesting but you don't know
too much on it so I'm not asking you to be an expert or anything on that but whilst I was looking
through the paperwork I saw a very interesting article on breast cancer and the journal article
actually wasn't one of the newer ones but most of what I saw with sound and vibrations were actually
in 2019 and 2020 publications so I was like I was pretty blown away and I think this is becoming
another resurging subject for people with science and academia are in the forefront to actually
prove this now as being a modality it's a little bit like the whole Tesla battery car thing you
know coming into fruition hopefully to put the whole fossil fuel thing firmly under the
under the rug and bring forward a new clean technology but I find a lot of the articles
that I see on PubMed as much as I know you've said in the past they are not exactly the best
places to go and there's a lot of corruption there obviously in any medical research depending
on who's funding it but very interesting to find in this age that we're in and definitely with the
internet and computers at the forefront of our ability to search and index things that people
are actually picking up a lot of these things that would have been just put down to new age
just crystal dangling and you know just not being given any scientific foundation upon which to voice
their findings but most of what I saw then in 2019 was fairly fairly pretty cool research that's
being done on things that I'm very happy to see so this one particular article even though it was a
2013 article the others that I'd like to cover with you as we go through this mainly 2019 and
2020 documents and I'll give people a link for these people want to go and search these themselves
to find out what we're talking about but this 2013 one it was titled low intensity and frequency
pulsed electromagnetic field selectively impair breast cancer cell viability so this was a an
article of which the abstracts just go through the introduction methods results in conclusion
but essentially they were saying that this pulse electromagnetic field therapy was a very good
treatment for breast cancer that didn't affect normal tissues and it was non-invasive obviously
and could be potentially combined with existing anti-cancer treatments now I think they have to
put that in there anyway as a kind of a caveat to not displace the conventional treatment because
I think that's the dominant paradigm and but just to say that actually they found a good reduction
in breast cancer growth using these pulse frequencies and hopefully we'll get into this
in a little bit as we go on but do you have anything to add to what was used here as a kind of
low intensity low frequency vibrational output that directly affected these cells
they weren't in that experiment paying attention to the effects of frequency so it was just
really giving some kind of excitation to the cells but other people like the reif tradition
have been trying to identify particular frequencies that are more effective at either
exciting or calming the cells in the 60s people were trying to use direct current to control
cancer growth professor Johns Hopkins published an article saying that he had regressed mouse
mammary tumors just using the application of direct current polarization
so just applying current but not a not not not not pulsing okay it's known that cancer
is electrically excited it's like a wound that is stuck in an electrically excited
at negatively charged condition okay and just I mean for the as much as much death and morbidity
that cancer is responsible for cancer cells are not exactly strong they're pretty weak aren't
they they are very fragile in a lot of ways and so I think some of the some of the work that's
been done either vibrational or electrically certainly has validity in disrupting that cell
stability because they don't particularly have very stable membranes in terms of the normal
architecture of the cell and being electrically charged and excited I think makes them more
susceptible to vibrating energy fields yeah such as in that experiment okay so what do you
when I started looking at this I saw that most of the articles that I pulled out that I want to just
go through with you using this pulsed electromagnetic fields most of these and they
were always obviously because that's how we do it now quoting these in hertz whereas before
you know 50 100 years ago they were called maybe a little bit earlier than that even they were
calling them cycles per second before they termed it hertz and before that they didn't even really
understand or have a concept of the second before about 1830 which I found that was quite interesting
that most time is well originally measured by the sun or the passage of the sun and that's how
people measured time given that that's a celestial thing that it transcends our earthly
fixation on the planet but that once they had devised this method for measuring time and then
came up with the second then the cycles per second and the hertz became a scientific if you like
valid measurement of frequency and then the whole industry if you like sprung up around this and then
getting later on into self-agio tuning and what most musicians that I've spoken to that said oh
yeah we just tuned to 440 hertz now and it's it's not the way it was and if you really like
gregorian music or baroque music it was definitely not 440 would have been 432 hertz and how
there's a subtle change in that but getting back to frequencies and how
a specific frequency can affect a cell given that we are 90 something plus percent water
all of the molecules in our body and not even the watery ones even the more kind of
solid cells have membranes that are fluid and can and do respond very much to vibration and
that's something that we have just been part of you know growing up and evolving and you know
we're subjected to the sun's ultraviolet and infrared and and all those spectrums that we
kind of live with and I think in going through some of the other discussion I wanted to hopefully
bring bring your knowledge out on with the current deployment of 5g and how there is all these you
know fairly worldwide protests about 5g and then pulling down 5g towers and this you know having to
bring out these big committees to discuss this because there's such an outrage at what could
potentially be a very disruptive technology in some ways that we are very much organismic and
sensitive to light and vibration like being frequency and all of these things whether it's
photons of light or it's energy whether this energy is high energy obviously the radiation
which is very bad for us but there's very low frequency electromagnetic fields are even lower
than the kind of background they say that the earth kind of resonates at about eight I think
it's eight just under just under eight hertz they were using frequencies between one one and eighty
I think and some of these were more more down in the sort of nines tens twelves thirteen and fourteen
hertz and actually showing that people were getting benefit from this and there's a whole
breast cancer article introduction you was you were saying again that they weren't
so much focusing on the frequency of it or they weren't yeah in the 60s the doctrine there are
still people arguing that cell phones aren't causing brain damage or cancer and so on but
that argument that cells are pretty immune to various frequencies started back in the late 40s
when radar was accidentally killing people who stood in front of the radar antenna
and the authority opinion at that time was that it was only by overheating your brain or other
organs that electromagnetic injury could harm you and in the 1960s that was the dogma that neither
sound nor electromagnetic energy below a certain frequency and energy could have any effect on the
units of the cell such as chromosomes or mitochondria and a person was working with
muscle cells in culture and measuring the activity of ATPase which controls the disposition of
energy in the cell and they found that I think was the pitch of 440 which was very powerful
at activating that muscle enzyme and they showed that the conventional theory of the cell
was impossible for that low frequency moderately low energy that the dogma says that the energy
concentration per micron or any unit of space is too low to do such things as causing chemical
changes but the person demonstrating the effect showed that in effect the cell structure was
acting as an antenna concentrating gathering energy from several microns of space and
concentrating it so that it could act on the enzyme that's the essential difference at that time
the conventional opinion was that it would be impossible to make a magnetic resonance
imaging device because of that same idea that the cell is organized randomly
but it took the interaction between Gilbert Ling and his organized water explanation of cell
function and Raymond Damadian who realized that if Gilbert Ling was right about how water behaves
so you can make pictures of the water in cells electromagnetically and so his invention of the
MRI device really changed the possibility of explaining cell function. Okay all right so
you mentioned I just want to quickly put this up there before I just let people know how to
call into the show yeah you mentioned that in the 50s and 60s that was happening and that just
just triggered me to think about all the bomb testing and how they were trying to tell us all
that the atomic bombs were completely harmless and how people could stand in front of them and
they wouldn't get any negative effects from it so they were saying the very same thing about the low
frequency low energy although the atomic bomb is the opposite end of the spectrum it was very high
intensity gamma rays and it was very very damaging but they really wanted us to try and cover that
whole thing up the whole radiation industry and that everything that we've got now from x-rays to
PET scans and CAT scans has all come from that and it's still being covered covered up and just
made harmless as it were. Yeah that's part of the reason that they deny that Gilbert Ling
had an immaculate description of the cell because if his picture of the cell is right
then radiation electromagnetic energy and so on is very relevant to health function.
Okay let me just let people know how to reach us here so you're listening to ask your Dr.
K. M. D. Garboville 91.1 FM the number here from 7 30 on if you'd like to call him the questions
are related or unrelated to the evening subject of vibration cell signaling and everything
surrounding sound and vibration as a modality for treatment the number here is 707 923 3911.
So again 707 923 3911. Okay so Dr. Peat that the first article then I read out the breast cancer
treatment selectively damaging breast cancer cells selectively leaving regular tissue unchanged
um was done with a frequency from 20 to 50 hertz and um they used 30 to 90 minute exposures
and said that these were the optimum parameters for selective cancer cell killing activity so
that was pretty interesting I don't know how much I didn't look at cell um cell death from
breast cancer any further because I was looking at lots of different um types of treatment to
different types of pathology that would be mitigated through sound the next one I was
going to ask you about was some bone regeneration I found a lot of um a lot of different abstracts
and articles um supporting this now um one of them here 2019 article in the journal of clinical
medicine was translational insights into extremely low frequency pulse electromagnetic fields for
bone regeneration after trauma and orthopedic surgery now if you open the link up I'm not
saying you have it but if people want to find out what these are when you open the link up
there's lots of information there showing how people with different traumas and surgeries that
were done were treated with sound and how this improved osteoblastic activity so the actual
what we understand what I understand at least at this point in time about bone building and bone
breaking um organ organs within the bone so the osteoblast build it and the osteoclast break it
down for remodeling um that this sound actually had a very specific effect on the osteoblast to
improve bone mineralization and bone formation and structure so that was pretty interesting
another 2019 document have you have you heard of um I don't know this kind of probably plays
a little bit into ultrasound but I'm not actually sure of the frequencies that ultrasound works at
the um for treating uh things they use of anything from 50,000 to 100,000
but the imaging is around a million cycles per second 50,000 to 100,000 hertz um yeah that
is a very effective uh wound treatment around I think 1970 or earlier someone discovered that
putting ultrasound on infected tonsils caused them to recover and become normal uninflamed
and that gradually over the next 10 or 20 years they found that bone healing was accelerated
and soft tissue wound healing was accelerated similar to what happened in the tonsil
and part of that is thought to be the activation of of cell regenerating
signals such as nitric oxide and estrogen that accelerate stem cell growth and
multiplication the early stages of healing yeah okay so um if I just I quickly actually
had this article here in front of me so I just wanted to it's like I said it's a 2019 article
and they said that here um being used in the treatment of acute bone fractures
and bone fracture non-unions osteotomies spinal fusion osteoporosis and osteoarthritis
and saying that these studies favored the use of extremely low frequency pulse electromagnetic
fields and saying that they wanted to establish indication-oriented treatment regimens and to
understand more the underlying mechanisms in the sense of the cell pathways and the events that
are triggered so some of the other other articles that I've got that I want to just so outline here
break down in pretty fine detail exactly what pathways these things are affecting and people
that are listening probably recognize the words interleukin prostaglandins and these other
signals of excitation and toxicity and inflammation a lot of what was happening with this sound was
that it was blocking a lot of what we understand as these pro-inflammatory pathways and allowing
either free radical quenching of this kind of excited state during inflammation and trauma
or was having another indirect anti-inflammatory effect.
The imaging of bone density or osteoporosis can be done with ultrasound you can tell the strength
of a bone as well as its density if you use ultrasound and since ultrasound stimulates
bone repair it would be reasonable if doctors would evaluate aging women's bones using ultrasound
but they x-ray them and x-rays actually weaken the bone and accelerate osteoporosis so
it would be a good change of technology to use to switch over to ultrasound. A friend of mine who
was for a year or more had had liver enzyme elevation and signs of hepatitis or developing
cirrhosis had a very prolonged ultrasound examination of her liver and a couple of weeks
later went back for another exam and her liver had completely recovered. I suspect it was from that
very half an hour or so of looking around with an ultrasound imaging device.
The mechanism by which that would have had the an anti-inflammatory effect I guess if we just
look at something like hepatitis as an inflammation of the hepatocytes,
inflammation quenching activity then of ultrasound would be a relative positive mechanism by which
that could happen. I know you've mentioned in the past that ultrasound is just generally a good
healing modality whether it's for bones or tissue, soft tissue or you know even yeah actually let's
have a look here. I think the only place it shouldn't be used is around the head because
tends to emulsify tissue if it's too energetic and you don't want emulsified brain cells.
No okay we do have somebody who has called in at this point in time so let's just begin
this decades questioning with this next caller. Caller you're on the air where you're from and
what's your question? Hi I'm from Texas and I have two questions. Yeah go ahead. One do you think
meditation is safe if you're trying to lower breathing rate and increase CO2 or can it have
bad effects like increasing serotonin or something like that? Dr. Peat meditation obviously we all
think about meditation as being relaxing, calm, innovative, regenerating but what the gentleman
saying about CO2? I think most people tend to hyperventilate too much and if you can just relax
and stop hyperventilating you retain more CO2 and that has an anti-inflammatory everywhere
everywhere in the body. So you'd advocate meditation correct? Yeah. Yeah definitely.
Okay cool I think you had two questions that was the first one or? Yeah that was the first one and
do you know what could help to reduce the need for sleep aside from increasing CO2 because that
basically helps everything. Did you catch that Dr. Peat? I missed. No not the whole. Yeah say
that again please. Do you know what things could help to reduce the need for sleep? Oh to reduce
the need for sleep. Oh yeah. Well how much sleep are you getting and what do you want to reduce it to?
Because I know Dr. Peat definitely advocates a good 10 hours.
Oh yeah if you're not getting in the deepest phase of sleep called slow wave sleep or deep sleep
your tissue isn't being repaired adequately and so you need more hours of it and so if you do
things that will deepen your sleep then you can reduce it to the normal six to eight and a half
hours and thyroid hormone and vitamin D are two of the most important things for maintaining
deep sleep. Okay and can vitamin D increase serotonin and worsen sleep or is it just a
matter of getting calcium to counter that? Yeah serotonin and histamine are both brain
excitatory signals and that's why antihistamines are used for improving sleep. They're
both antiserotonin and antihistamine drugs do improve sleep but you can do the same thing
with good nutrition lots of calcium, vitamin D and thyroid. Okay thank you so much. Thank you.
Okay now some antihistamines obviously are sleep inducing correct because they purposely make these
non-drowsy producing antihistamines. Do you think there's any difference in the mechanism by which
they're being? Well histamine is basically an inflammation signal and insomnia you are having
in effect an inflamed brain and you can quiet it by getting the energy production up with thyroid
and sugar and all of the nutrients but the antihistamine chemicals are everything that
works in a different direction from adrenaline. Adrenaline is antihistamine but it is also
excitatory and so insomnia usually involves both adrenaline and antihistamine. The adrenaline is
attempting to turn off the histamine but if you get your energy up you turn off both of them and
let the brain relax. Right now so let's be clear about that so relax and relaxation is not negative
I just want to make sure people understand this when you say you it allows your brain to relax
that's exactly what thyroid hormone will do through the correct utilization of sugar and then when you
said that during the night time is when most inflammation of the brain will happen and this
is because of a lowered energy state adequate thyroid and adequate sugars prior to sleep or
in the post-pre six hours to sleep and or during the night time will keep those inflammatory
mediators down and reduce that inflammation and most aging changes occurring during the hours of
sleep and darkness. Yeah because you said darkness is not good for you obviously it's something we
can't avoid perhaps if we're in bed at night time with the lights off in a dark place but
the dark is not good for us the light is actually what's very energetically stimulating for us and
supportive etc. Okay we have another caller on the air so let's get this next caller on the air
where you from caller and what's your question? Hi I'm from McKinleyville. Hey what's your question?
Well I have a question about um infrasound uh we were just um embattled with a wind factory
that proposed a whole bunch of uh wind power turbines and the uh proponent
um denied that there was any effect to what's called infrasound the sound produced by these
turbines that are below audible range and I'm wondering if you have any thoughts or information
regarding biological effects of of infrasound. I think cell culture gives an insight to what might
be happening uh the infrasound frequencies are something around 50 per second 30 to 30 per
second or even as low as 10 per second but if you're growing cells in culture that they always
lose some of their uh properties that they had in in situ in the organism and one of the tricks to
make cell culture more lifelike is to give it some kind of pulsation because
cell physiology depends on the fact that the blood is rhythmically pulsing through the system
and the pulse rate is in the intrasonic frequency and there are many other frequencies that
every cell in the body normally receives stimulation nervous pulses as well as blood
heart heartbeat pulsations. So thank you I take from that then you would expect there to be
physiological effects from a constant infrasound. Yeah I don't know that anyone has clearly
demonstrated it but you can use equivalent pulsations to show that you are changing the
cell physiology in vitro. Thank you very much. Yeah thanks for your call interesting question
I know there's definitely been protest groups that have sprung up around wind farm sites and
potential wind farm sites I know England and parts of Norfolk in the east east of the country there
have had a fair amount of wind farms because it's so flat and so windy but yeah interesting
question about infrasounds well thanks for explaining that Dr. Peat well done okay the
number here if you live in the area is 707 923 3911 the lines are open now until the end of the
show at eight o'clock Dr. Raymond Peat is joining us on the show and we're discussing vibrations
cell signaling resonant harmonies and healing frequencies although we haven't really got into
too much of that at this point in time but very interesting questions anyway good Dr. Peat
before the next caller comes in I'm sure there'll be some more callers but I wanted to just bring
out some of the parameters in which these 20 20 this is a 2020 article here so it's very new very
current and I think all the time there are more and more descriptive processes to explain how
and I think scientists basically are committed to needing to explain in full detail and I think
that's great because I mean with detail comes disclosure with disclosure comes the possibility
of reaching some novel novel idea that might bring us into a 20th 21st century appreciation
of good health rather than the old paradigm of radiation and cutting things out and really not
recovering very well actually before I start I think the lights have started flashing here so
let's make sure that we don't cut people off yeah we've got one more call it's a caller you're on
the air and where you from what's your question hi I'm from Berkeley um I have a an appointment
next week to start my interferon for my hepatitis C but I had a very thorough ultrasound on my liver
to find that out so should I ask them if I don't need the hepatitis C I don't want to go through
the interferon he said interferon are they still the ultrasound would cure me well I guess first
things first um they still use I didn't think I thought they'd stopped years ago three or five
years ago using interferon because it was so brutal okay then I don't know what they're
going to give me I don't know what the treatment is I'm going to find out on on next week yeah I
can't imagine it's interferon but Dr. Peat I know what you're saying here about ultrasound and
hepatitis and uh you want to speak to that oh not not in a short time like this okay uh have you
the only thing I think I would say to the person here that's called in about this uh potentially
uh I don't know how severe your hepatitis is what parameters they've used to assess how much damage
you may or may not have received I know people are so different in their presentations some people
just don't even know they've got it don't their labs look fine they feel fine some people are
crippled with it um so I don't know about your situation I think uh what I would say to you is
that if your blood work doesn't look bad and you don't feel bad and you are relatively old
sounds to me like you're dealing with it okay but it's uh you know kind of personal question
they'll be asking you about your previous labs your state of health etc to make a um make a
valid call on what you would best do okay I'm 60 years old was that 60 or 50 60 okay yeah all right
and do you know what your lab values for your inflammatory markers are for your AFP no I have
I have no idea they just said it wasn't I didn't it wasn't very bad yeah yeah it's um you know it's
a very personal call uh I know people have gone both routes unfortunately I know people that have
had uh they had the old interfere on treatment uh they failed it uh they wound up actually with
cirrhosis portal hypertension they died from esophageal variceal bleeding um and it was
terrible I know other people that have had hepatitis c for 50 years and they're absolutely
fine uh even though they've got high liver enzymes which seem to implicate them in liver inflammation
and damage and I know people that have got hepatitis they've got perfectly normal enzymes
so it's a very widely presenting uh disease we want to call it a disease and I know Dr. Peat
you're almost on the fence as to whether or not it's actually a virus or whether it's actually
RNA that's leaked from cells from prior traumas yeah I think the test to identify it
has done more harm than the virus itself because of of the kind of desperate attitude that they
take with things like interferon I think people who probably wouldn't have had any
any problem if it hadn't been diagnosed have been injured by some of the treatments they get
actually on the point on the point of this subject I know years back when I'd question
you for a couple of patients that I'd you know spent time with and knew personally was on a kind
of more personal level with them now you said didn't you I thought you said that um ribavirin
which I think was one of the treatments along with interferon that was a standard uh treatment
uh was not well not actually that bad I think one of those and I don't think it was interferon
you always said interferon was like massively inflammatory and and very negative on a system
but ribavirin actually might not have been a bad compound to try but yeah I think it's less
less harmful yeah okay all right uh I don't know if that helps you in any way call it but
what I would do if I was in your shoes I would definitely assess your assess your labs and
assess yourself I mean how do you feel um okay okay you know no I feel really good I feel really good
but okay what's up one more question what about the hydrogen peroxide uh the strong hydrogen
peroxide that you you do those drops say that again that hydrogen peroxide treatment with
hydrogen peroxide like 30 drops a day oh no you're not talking about mm uh mmsi the miracle
mineral supplement that's actually bleach which no no no no no it's it's actually it's hydrogen
peroxide and you can bite it daisy that's a human strength or whatever uh well you start out like
one drop a day and go up to 30 yeah that sounds just like mms which is actually uh um the same
sodium hypochlorite which is a regular household bleach uh it was a fad and I can't believe it's
still on the internet it's absolutely all over it and I'm kind of amazed that it's still going
and it's still got such a strong following but uh you'll find testimonials about this that and
the other on it and it starts off at one drop a day and ends up with however many drops and
there's people writing testimonials about how it's done this and done that and it's kind of
unbelievable really but um I would I would say that I would not I would not get involved with it
Dr. Peat uh you've probably been have you heard about the mms it's like yeah there was a study
in Italy that identified it as a probable carcinogen right yeah so I would probably
I probably not I probably I would not go down that route ma'am okay well I sure I sure got a
lot out of this call from you guys um it was great yeah thank you so much you're very welcome
okay for yeah happy new year to you okay uh if anybody else wants to call in we've got uh 14
minutes so we've got one more caller here but the number in the air if you're in or out of the air
it doesn't matter where on planet earth you are at 707-923-3911 707-923-3911 and let's take this
next call are you on the air call away from what's your question I was diagnosed with osteoporosis
10 years ago am I could you turn your radio down ma'am I'm turning 66 in a couple of days you know
and supposedly I have a um osteopoenic spine whatever that is a femoral neck that is osteoporotic
in a total osteoporotic hip however I feel fine you know I do I just walked 44 miles to get my
tooth extracted from shelter cove the other day oh my gosh okay ma'am I guess first things first
before we let dr pete answer and you'll have some vibrational thing I'd like to talk about yeah
pulse waves and you know I'm a musician and I believe in music therapy sure and pulse sonar
waves are able to help bone growth sure I've got articles right in front of me man I do believe it
because you know I've been studying music my entire life I have a degree from Catholic University of
America could you turn your tv down it's on in the background it's not my tv it's my radio radio
yeah if you could tell me what's going on you know I am not deaf actually but you know I can hear
things and talk at the same time here I don't have a tv I've never had a tv in my entire life
okay if you could turn the radio down that would help thank you so dr pete I know you know a lot
about a lot of things and osteoporosis is something I've questioned you on recently but
and I also have osteomotor hypothyroidism well there you go that goes hand in hand with osteoporosis
man yes but mine's genetic from being northern italian well I'm not too sure about the relevance
of that but dr p go ahead vitamin k is very important along with vitamin d and calcium intake
vitamin k prevents the removal of calcium from the bone and keeps it out of the soft tissues
the combination is much more effective than either one alone okay so they give vitamin k
calcium and d yeah i'm perfect okay well let's uh let's just see if any other callers are going
to be calling in here in the last uh nine minutes or so before we wrap the show up once again 707
923 3911 and dr p is joining us once more this decade so um getting back to uh until the lights
go off here but getting back to some of the um some of the measurements by which they support
the abstracts that i've looked at um this one particular abstract here was showing that um
exposure to a cytokine production by lipopolysaccharide which we've heard we've heard
and discussed before in the past that this compound lps is responsible for inflammation
cells and in this pathway the pathway of the inflammation basically adenyl cyclase and
phospholipase proteins kinase c and several other protein kinases here were seemingly modulated
by these sound waves and they're saying that this is evidence of why this post electromagnetic field
therapy had such a significant effect on inflammation and quelling inflammation because
it's directly uh interrupting these signal pathways that normal inflammation is involved in
um i think normal activity has some of those uh effects anti-inflammatory effects
if you're forced uh into inactivity you develop a generalized inflammation in
probably all of the tissues and free activity work that is productive using your muscles walking
for example rather than sitting the normal activity of muscles lowers the stress hormones
and increases the constructive hormones such as progesterone and dhea and testosterone
and normal activity in itself is an anti-inflammatory process and i suspect that
these certain frequencies are imitating the normal rhythm of proper activity cool okay we do have
another caller who's uh waiting here so caller you're on the air where you from and what's your
question hi my name's julie and i'm from lintonville my question is um i have fibromyalgia
and i'm trying to navigate through this still i've had it for 10 years but i find that when i get
into a big city and i'm around a lot of uh power lines and stuff like that i start feeling a little
not well so i didn't know if there was like any relationship between those two things
well dr p you're understanding of fibromyalgia i know is a little different from the current
medical uh normal model of it but i think a lot of doctors are coming around to recognize
the importance of hormone balance a good thyroid function vitamin d and keeping up the constructive
hormones or steroids like progesterone testosterone and dhea okay and especially as you're female i
mean i don't mean this in any negative way but because you're exposed uh and in an unopposed way
after your menstruation has stopped to estrogen that is very important for you to make sure you
get adequate progesterone because it's the antagonist of the inflammatory estrogen and that
in fibromyalgia uh no doubt that estrogen excess or estrogen dominance certainly has a role to play
in that tired waterlogged muscles of which estrogen is a main cause oh okay well i'm 63 now so i don't
have too many of those you don't you don't but you don't have any uh any way to combat the estrogen
you're still producing you're every cell in your body is still manufacturing or can manufacture
and secrete estrogen but your ovaries no longer function and so therefore you're not getting
progesterone exposure which is very important to offset that okay and which is part and parcel of
the osteoporosis question i was also wondering but not to uh say to dr p that we didn't mention
um you know progesterone um as a yeah anyway so carry on yeah cortisol is a born destroyer
and progesterone is the main antagonist of cortisol okay so um is there a book or something
that i can get on this subject that you guys are talking about that you would recommend
you haven't written one yet dr p about it have you
we've talked about it a lot over 10 years but nothing's materialized at this point in time but
dr p what i would say to you ma'am is that at the end of the show i'll give that dr p's website he's
got plenty of articles actually surrounding just what you're talking about uh although a lot of it
is for the sake of it very science-based and um some of it may be a little hard for
a novice to grasp it's very well grounded in science and so therefore it's it's very easy
to catch the thrust of what he's saying and certainly you can find out more information
if you're on the internet about some of those uh concepts precepts and directions that you get taken
in good deal well thank you so much i appreciate your time you're welcome okay we got one more
caller i think this would probably be the last caller before we wrap up the show but
call you're on the air and what's your question away from oh i'm local uh person and i believe
it was helga clark that wrote the cure for all cancers and i wonder if the doctor approves of
the device that she created to you know uh tone out certain bacterial frequencies and i can hang
up now i think she used just a simple low voltage direct current stimulator and that device can be
used productively but i don't think she understood enough to use it productively
yeah interesting oh thank you you're welcome okay so i don't know maybe we can squeeze one
more in if someone wants to call in it's seven zero seven nine two three three nine one one
otherwise i'm sure we've got enough to carry on with here for a couple of minutes to let people
know how they can reach dr p i think probably dr p i don't see the lights flashing here we'll say
thank you very much for your time uh this month i look forward to next month uh obviously we
as usual but thank we didn't get we didn't get into as much as i thought we might do so we've
got material for next month if you're available i'd love to carry on the subject it's definitely
very interesting okay thank you okay so for those people who've listened to the show this evening
and or listen to this on the audio archives or on the web um dr pete's web address is www.raypeat
r-a-y-p-e-a-t.com uh he's got a huge list of articles that have been written that are fully
referenced scientific articles that you would expect to see in any good journal uh fully
referenced for the things that he's saying so it's not just his opinion um there's many many
articles from all sorts of different pathologies so go take a look at his website uh like i said
a lot of it's uh very science-based so maybe a little bit um tough chewing for some people to
get through it but nonetheless uh what we need is good science to underpin a good direction to go in
because i don't think the medical model we're using at this point in time uh is a particularly
good model it's certainly uh fairly damaging in some cases and it does not really tolerate too
much criticism about it so anyway uh what we do here on this show once a month from the third
friday of every month from 7 to 8 pm is discuss alternative uh treatments alternative approaches
and indeed bring up some old past uh research that's been done that may either be revived in
the light of current knowledge or just because it's become forgotten it's just valuable to bring
it up again to make sure people recognize that there is and has been and still is answers um
that are there and available so that people don't have to go down one particular route to get treated
for a disease um it's not always one pill works for everybody obviously it's very far from that
and i would encourage everybody to do their own research there's plenty of alternatives out there
and like that lady who called in with hepatitis you know obviously if she is close to cirrhosis
and she's dying and there's nothing else that can be done obviously there's a potential treatment
for her which you know in the light of current research seems to show some fairly significant
results i won't say it doesn't but obviously you've got to understand it in the context that
dr p understands things in so it's not the last thing to do it's not the first thing to do perhaps
but it'd be the one of the last things to do if everything else has failed um anyway so my name's
andrew murray i run a business called western botanical medicine i produce herb extracts of
medicinal plants i was trained in europe i graduated in england and we do what we love
we've been doing it over 20 years now so all the best to everybody out there who's tuned into the
show who maybe supports our products and our business our whole whole aim is to help you
naturally anyway thanks for your time and until next month happy new year